Add Cyclic hosting guide (#888)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/hosting/cyclic.md

---
prev: false
next: false
---

# Hosting: Cyclic.sh

This guide tells you about the ways you can host your grammY bots on [Cyclic.sh](https://cyclic.sh/), using Node.js.

## Prerequisites

To follow along, you need to have a [Github](https://github.com/) and [Cyclic.sh](https://cyclic.sh/) account.
First, install some dependencies:

```sh
# Create a project directory.
mkdir grammy-bot
cd grammy-bot
npm init --y

# Install main dependencies.
npm install grammy express

# Install development dependencies.

> npm install -D typescript @types/express @types/node @types/node-fetch

Reviewer: It should not be necessary to install types for node-fetch. Instead, enable skipLibCheck.

---
prev: false
next: false
---

# Hosting: Cyclic

> This guide tells you about the ways you can host your grammY bots on [Cyclic](https://cyclic.sh/), using Node.js.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide teaches you how you can host your grammY bots on [Cyclic](https://cyclic.sh/).
```

## Prerequisites

To follow along, you need to have a [Github](https://github.com/) and [Cyclic](https://cyclic.sh/) account.

> First, install some dependencies:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, initialize your project and install some dependencies:
```

```sh

> # Create a project directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Initialize the project.
```

mkdir grammy-bot
cd grammy-bot

> npm init --y

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
npm init -y
```

# Install main dependencies.
npm install grammy express dotenv

# Install development dependencies.
npm install -D typescript ts-node nodemon @types/express @types/node

# Create TypeScript config.
npx tsc --init
```

> We will store our TypeScript files inside a folder `src`, and our compiled files in a folder `dist`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will store our TypeScript files inside `src/`, and our compiled files in `dist/`.
```

> Create the folders in the project's root directory.
> Then, inside folder `src`, create a new file named `bot.ts`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating those directories, cd into `src/`, and create a file named `bot.ts`.
```

> Our folder structure should now look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your project's root directory should now look like this:
```

```asciiart:no-line-numbers
.
├── node_modules/
├── dist/
├── src/
│   └── bot.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

> After that, open `tsconfig.json` and change it to use this configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After that, open `tsconfig.json` and change it to use this configuration:
```

> After that, open `tsconfig.json` and change it to use this configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, open `tsconfig.json`, and rewrite its contents to use this configuration:
```

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "outDir": "dist",
    "rootDir": "./src",
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "strict": true
  }
}
```

And then we have to add `start`, `build` and `dev` scripts to our `package.json`.
Our `package.json` should now be similar to this:

```json{6}
{
  "name": "grammy-bot",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "dist/index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "build": "tsc",
    "start": "node dist/index.js",
    "dev": "nodemon src/index.ts"
  },
  "license": "ISC",
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "^4.18.2",
    "grammy": "^1.17.2"
  },

>   "devDependencies": {

Reviewer: Ah hang on, we need to list nodemon here

Author: https://github.com/grammyjs/website/pull/888/commits/ec509cdb5f562266ead2ef76688a417b43a2d6b1

---
prev: false
next: false
---

# Hosting: Cyclic

> This guide tells you how you can host your grammY bots on [Cyclic](https://cyclic.sh/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide tells you how you can host your grammY bots on [Cyclic](https://cyclic.sh).
```

## Prerequisites

> To follow along, you need to have a [Github](https://github.com/) and [Cyclic](https://cyclic.sh/) account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To follow along, you need to have a [Github](https://github.com) and [Cyclic](https://cyclic.sh) account.
```

After creating both of them, cd into `src/`, and create a file named `bot.ts`.
Your project's root directory should now look like this:

```asciiart:no-line-numbers
.
├── node_modules/
├── dist/
├── src/
│   └── bot.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

Then, open `tsconfig.json`, and rewrite its contents to use this configuration:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "outDir": "dist",
    "rootDir": "./src",
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "strict": true
  }
}
```

And then we have to add `start`, `build` and `dev` scripts to our `package.json`.
Our `package.json` should now be similar to this:

```json{6}
{
  "name": "grammy-bot",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "dist/bot.js",
  "scripts": {
    "build": "tsc",
    "start": "node dist/bot.js",
    "dev": "nodemon src/bot.ts"
  },
  "license": "ISC",
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "^4.18.2",
    "grammy": "^1.17.2",
    "dotenv": "^16.3.1"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/express": "^4.17.17",
    "@types/node": "^20.4.9",
    "typescript": "^5.1.6"
    "nodemon": "^3.0.1",
    "ts-node": "^10.9.1"
  },
  "keywords": []
}
```

### Webhooks

> Open up the `bot.ts` file located in your `src` directory and paste the following content:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open `src/bots.ts` write the following contents to it:
```

> ```ts{10} [Node.js]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```ts{10}
```

import express from "express";
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy";
import "dotenv/config";

const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN || "");

> bot.command("start", (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello World!"))
> 
> if (process.env.NODE_ENV === "DEVELOPMENT") {
> 	bot.start();
> } else {
> 	const port = process.env.PORT || 3000;
> 	const app = express();
> 	app.use(express.json());
> 	app.use(`/${bot.token}`, webhookCallback(bot, "express"));
> 	app.listen(port, () => console.log(`listening on port ${port}`));
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
bot.command("start", (ctx) => ctx.reply("Hello World!"))

if (process.env.NODE_ENV === "DEVELOPMENT") {
  bot.start();
} else {
  const port = process.env.PORT || 3000;
  const app = express();
  app.use(express.json());
  app.use(`/${bot.token}`, webhookCallback(bot, "express"));
  app.listen(port, () => console.log(`listening on port ${port}`));
}
```

```

> We advise you to have your handler on some secret path rather than the root (`/`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend that you have your webhook handler on a secret path rather than `/`.
```

> As shown in the highlighted line above, we are using the bot token (`/<bot token>`) as the secret path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As shown in the highlighted line above, we are using the `/<bot token>` instead of `/`.
```

### Local Development

> Create a `.env` file at the root of your project with the following content:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a `.env` file at the root of your project with the following contents:

```

```

> BOT_TOKEN = <Your-Bot-Token>
> NODE_ENV = DEVELOPMENT

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BOT_TOKEN=<bot-token>
NODE_ENV=DEVELOPMENT
```

```

> And then run the following command:
> ```shell
> npm run dev

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After that, run your `dev` script:

```shell
npm run dev
```

```

Nodemon will watch your `bot.ts` file and restart your bot on every code change.

## Deploying

1. Create a repository on GitHub, it can be either private or public.
2. Push your code.

> > It is recommended that you have a single stable branch and you do your testing stuff in other branches, so that you won't get some unexpected things happen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> It is recommended that you have a single stable branch and you do your testing in separate branches, so that you won't land unexpected behaviors to production.
```

1. Visit your [Cyclic dashboard](https://app.cyclic.sh).

> 2. Click on "Link Your Own" and choose your repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click "Link Your Own" and select your repository.
```

> 3. Click on "Advanced", then "Variables" and add your `BOT_TOKEN`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Go to Advanced > Variables and add your `BOT_TOKEN`.
```

> 4. Click on "Connect Cyclic" to deploy your bot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Deploy your bot with "Connect Cyclic".
```

### Setting the Webhook URL

> If you are using webhooks, after getting your app running, you should configure your bot's webhook settings to point to your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using webhooks, after your first deployment, you should configure your bot's webhook settings to point to your app.
```

As shown in the highlighted line above, we are using the `/<bot-token>` instead of `/`.

### Local Development

Create a `.env` file at the root of your project with the following contents:

```
BOT_TOKEN=<bot-token>
NODE_ENV=DEVELOPMENT
```

After that, run your `dev` script:

```shell
npm run dev
```

Nodemon will watch your `bot.ts` file and restart your bot on every code change.

## Deploying

1. Create a repository on GitHub, it can be either private or public.
2. Push your code.

> It is recommended that you have a single stable branch and you do your testing in separate branches, so that you won't land unexpected behaviors to production.

1. Visit your [Cyclic dashboard](https://app.cyclic.sh).
2. Click "Link Your Own" and select your repository.
3. Go to Advanced > Variables and add your `BOT_TOKEN`.
4. Deploy your bot with "Connect Cyclic".

### Setting the Webhook URL

If you are using webhooks, after your first deployment, you should configure your bot's webhook settings to point to your app.
To do that, send a request to

```text
https://api.telegram.org/bot<token>/setWebhook?url=<url>/<token>
```

> replacing `<token>` with your bot's token, and `<url>` with the full URL of your app along with the path to the webhook handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
replacing `<token>` with your bot token, and `<url>` with the full URL of your app along with the path to the webhook handler.
```
